.TH DCCSDUMP 1 "28 February 2026" "DICOM PS3" "DICOM PS3 - Describe DICOM coded sequence content"
.SH NAME
dccsdump \- ACR/NEMA DICOM PS3 ... DICOM PS3 - Describe DICOM coded sequence content
.SH SYNOPSIS
.HP 10
.B dccsdump
.so man1/gen.so
[
.B \-v|verbose
]
[
.B \-vv|veryverbose
]
[
.B \-filename
]
[
.B \-identifier
]
.so man1/optin.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B dccsdump
reads the named dicom input file and describes any Code Sequences (defined by the presence of Coding Scheme Designator) contained therein.
.SH OPTIONS
The attribute values, description and verbose output go to standard error.
.PP
The basic input switches are described in dcintro(1). Options specific to this program are:
.TP
.B \-verbose
.RS
Describe the parsing process; does not actually do anything at present.
.RE
.TP
.B \-veryverbose
.RS
Display byte offset from file start and message start, in hexadecimal, and dump contents of the DICOM dataset while reading.
.RE
.TP
.B \-filename
.RS
Show the name of the file supplied in the arguments; a hyphen will be reported if no filename was supplied.
.RE
.TP
.B \-identifier
.RS
Preceed each sequence with the dot delimited numeric identifier of the sequence attribute containing the coded content relative to the root of the nested sequence item tree, and the item number in the sequence in brackets.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.LP
\ 
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.RE
\ 
.RE
% dccidump -identifier wsi.dcm
.RE
		1.81[1].6[1].1: Specimen Preparation Step Content Item Sequence
.RE
1.87: Container Type Code Sequence = (433466003,SCT,"Microscope slide")
.RE
	1.89[1].1: Primary Anatomic Structure Sequence = (10003008,SCT,"Unspecified")
.RE
			1.89[1].6[1].1[1].2: Concept Name Code Sequence = (121041,DCM,"Specimen Identifier")
.RE
			1.89[1].6[1].1[2].2: Concept Name Code Sequence = (111701,DCM,"Processing type")
.RE
			1.89[1].6[1].1[2].3: Concept Code Sequence = (127790008,SCT,"Staining")
.RE
			1.89[1].6[1].1[3].2: Concept Name Code Sequence = (424361007,SCT,"Using substance")
.RE
			1.89[1].6[1].1[3].3: Concept Code Sequence = (12710003,SCT,"hematoxylin stain")
.RE
			1.89[1].6[1].1[4].2: Concept Name Code Sequence = (424361007,SCT,"Using substance")
.RE
			1.89[1].6[1].1[4].3: Concept Code Sequence = (36879007,SCT,"water soluble eosin stain")
.RE
	1.101[1].1: Illumination Type Code Sequence = (111744,DCM,"Brightfield illumination")
.RE
	1.101[1].5: Illumination Color Code Sequence = (414298005,SCT,"Full Spectrum")
.RE
.SH FILES
.LP
\ 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dcintro(1) ,
.BR dcdump(1) ,
.BR dccidump(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright (c) 1993-2026, David A. Clunie DBA PixelMed Publishing. All rights reserved.
.SH BUGS
